# Proposal

## Motivation

Phase field models are a bridge between atomic-scale methods and the
macro scale and, thus, a key component of ICME workflows. However,
phase field simulations require extensive computational resources and
generate large volumes of raw field data. A FAIRer, more systematic,
approach to archiving phase field data has the potential to improve
ICME workflows substantially. Currently, researchers are hindered in
phase field research and engineering in all aspects of the FAIR
paradigm with regard to both simulation and data archiving. In
particular developing better AI surrogate models for phase field could
be improved with a more systematic approach to simulation and data
archiving.

In this project, we propose using a similar idea to the approach
outlined by the [Data Dictionaries Working
Group](https://www.marda-alliance.org/portfolio-item/wg-5-data-dictionaries-working-group/). They
state that "metadata that travels with the data and enrich dataset
context by making relationships to other datasets in the materials
research community explicity". In particular, as described in the
previous sections, this approach enables researchers to query for
datasets that are currently hard to find. Currently, the PFHub project
uses [its own lightweigh
ontolgoy](https://github.com/usnistgov/pfhub-schema) to categorize and
compare phase field results for the benchmark problems published by
the CHiMaD phase field workshop participants. This takes the form of a
small YAML file with links to relevant raw or processed tabular
data. The data is archived with the YAML file alongside and then this
link is provided to the PFHub project. We propose a similkar approach
for all archived phase field data.

The main aim of the working group is to provide an ontology or schema
to describe phase field simulations and the correspoinding data. This
might include a simple link to a problem definition, a description of
the numerical approach, computational resources, categorization of the
physical model as well as links and descriptions of the data files.
As an aside, it is worth noting that the metadata and provenance
issues for storing simulation data effectively have not been widely
addressed by the materials data community. Clearly, a successful
approach to these issues within the phase field community could be
disseminated into other sub-fields of materials science.

## Work Plan

The main aim of the working group is to generate a lightweight
ontogolgy. This approach assuming the researcher is motivated to
publish raw data, is only a minimal barrier to the process of data
archiving.  The main hurdle for the researcher is generating the YAML
file. The working group would aim to provide resources via templates,
web form and command line tools to help with this process. The main
steps in the work plan are

1. **Generate and finalize an initial schema**:
  - Use exisint PFHub linkml repo to start
  - Finalize a schema over first few months of WG
  - Share schema at relevant meetings to get feedback such as CHiMaD phase field meeting

2. **Implement web tool, templates or command line to generate schema files**
  - Like codemeta.json
  - Generate prefilled examples of the YAML / JSON file
  - Implement in exisisting codes to dump out a phase-field.json with
    the data???
  - co-opt exisiting or use new command line tool to query files and
    some question answer templates and push files to zenodo or similar
    service

3. **Examples**

4. **Approach wider phase field community for feedback**






- Finalize an initial schema and format similar to the existing PFHub schema, but more complete
- Generate web tool, templates and command line tool to generate metadata ontology files
- Generate archived examples on a variety of data archive sites using PFHub benchmarks
- Generate compelling data aggregation data view case study from the above examples to demonstrate the advantages of the proposed approach
- Approach the wider phase field community to garner interest and provide feedback

### Goals and Expected Impact

 - A schema generated by LinkML or similar tool in variety of file formats
 - Case study and tools as outlined above
 - Report from the wider phase field community

### Deliverables

Within 12 months of the commencement of the working group, we will deliver

- A Working Group Note, published on the MaRDA Alliance website including some feedback from wider phase field community
- Implemented examples of usage and data aggregation as outlined above.
