# AI Use Case

## Problem Statement

Search for appropriate phase field data to calibrate and determine the
optimal active learning algorithm for a specific class of phase field
data (e.g. photo-voltaic material property associated with
microstructures from Cahn-Hilliard [1*]).

## Context

A particular example of an AI technique that is relevant to phase
field is active learning (AL). AL can greatly reduce the need for
running exhaustive resource intensive phase-field parameter studies in
the materials design process. Optimizing a generalizable materials
design process might involve evaluating many AL algorithms (such as
uncertainty sampling, greed sampling or Bayesian sampling) [1*] on
unseen data sets and determining which algorithm is the most
generalizable.  An example of this from [1] is using the
microstructure generated by a phase field simulation to predict a
photo-voltaic propertry calculate by very epensive solutions to the
the drift-diffusion equations. The reseacher might first want to
determine the optimal AL agorightm from previous similar data sets
that have already had property calculations determined. The reseach
would then use this optimized AL algorthim to calcuate the PF propetry
in an optimal way with the minimum number of expensive drift-diffusion
calcuations. Overall, basing AI-systems on mechanistic or physics
informed approaches (e.g. using AL to generate an optimal data set from
physics-based calculationis) rather than directly on experimental data
can overcome issues such as over-fitting, interpretability and
explainablity [1]

## Key Issues

- Phase field simulations are resource intensive and can be the
  limiting step in materials design. Coupling AL with phase field can
  improve efficiency.
- Generalized AI models (such as transfer models or AL models) will
  require large quantities of both training data and unseen data.
- The schema needs to support single simulations as well as set of
  1000s of smaller related simulations that might be generated for an
  AI study.
- A mechanism to describe the microstructure being generated by the
  phase field simulations might be required (maybe a link to a
  microstructure description file or simple keywords).
- How to describe the overall structure of the data set? (Outliers, is
  it balanced, what was the overall thinking?). Maybe a link to a
  document?
- How to deal with labeling data. Encourage a separate file with
  labeled data based on sample.
- Has the data been post-processed to a lower dimension (with
  autoencoder, 2-point stats or PCA)
- Is the order of the sample randomized or are classes ordered.

## Solution and Recommendation

- Describe a series of data sets with a single entry wildcard
  - What is varying across the data sets?
- What process is the phase field simulating?
  - Use existing materials schema [2]
- Equations described by keywords
- A characterization of the microstructure beyond the equation type
  - Number of phases
  - Number of components
  - Description (key words: spinodal, laminar, dendritic etc)
- Type of free energy (described by key words)
- Is the data set intended for AI?
- What is the size of the data set? (Samples versus features)
- What was the post-processing step (description) 
- Identify files with labels

[1]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2021.117485
[2]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14686996.2016.1194166

