Meeting agenda, notes and actions for 2025-04-02 at 12 noon ET

Organizer
: Daniel Wheeler

Attendees
: - Daniel Wheeler, NIST
  - Zachary Trautt, NIST
  - Marvin Tegeler, OPS, RUB
  - David Montiel, University of Michigan

## Links

 - [Google Meet][meet]
 - [WG GitHub repository][repo]
 - [Google Docs][docs]
 - [Overleaf publication][overleaf]

## Agenda

1. Please add your name above
2. Any questions or items to raise for discussion (please add)
3. Reminders
    - Next WG meet
        - Propose to move meeting to May 14
5. [MatCore](https://arxiv.org/html/2502.07106v1)
    - doesn't seem to reference previous efforts like RO-Crate?
    - should we reach out to the authors
        - who knows them?
7. Work on outline for paper
    - Add todonotes
    - work on structure
    - divide up sections
    
## Notes


## New Action Items

 - Next meeting May 21
 - Zach will reach out to Jane Greenberg (MatCore)
 - Fix paper to refect simulation > experimental for metadata (in first para of paper)
 - include semantic web schema


## Previous Action Items

- [ ] Add David to overleaf doc
- [x] Move new months meeting to April 2
- [ ] Get paper deadline moved back until August 5
    - [x] sent request email
- [ ] Improve paper
    - [ ] write some of the intro
    - [ ] add todonotes to paper
    - [ ] add some bibtex items
    - [ ] improve structure
    - [ ] add write up on fipy use case

<!-- links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/bas-vkxi-rmq
[repo]: https://github.com/marda-alliance/phase-field-schema
[docs]: https://drive.google.com/drive
[overleaf]: https://www.overleaf.com/project/663e34cc1c8095115e0de913
